---
title: Testimonials
date: 2017-04-17 12:37:00 -0700
layout: single
---

> Carl is a terrific digital mind. He has proven his fluency in several critical web development languages - HTML5, CSS, Javascript and PHP - and he uses those skills to craft engaging, intuitive digital projects. Better still, Carl is fully capable of disseminating his knowledge to his team and coworkers. He is no closet-and-dark-room developer; he can lead a team from concept to finished project. And like any good journalist, he's detail oriented and deadline driven.
>
>> **Jonathan Bennett**, Web Development Manager, HealthGrades.com*

> Working with Carl is pure joy...he's on top of his digital game no doubt, but he brings his special brand of humor and wit to bear on the marketing and branding department. Carl will thrive in an entrepreneurial environment, wearing multiple hats. He's enthusiastic about "big data" and tackling complex problems. He's as comfortable working with a team as he is contributing to projects from his own corner of the world. If you're looking for someone who brings a fresh outlook to his work, who is constantly evolving, and who is passionate about building a quality digital experience, look no further than Carl V. Lewis.
>
> > Stacy Jennings, Director of Marketing / Morning News Media (Savannah Morning News)

> Carl was a colleague of mine while we were both studying at Columbia Journalism School in 2011-2012, and he later went on to become a professional mentor-of-sorts to me after he moved back to New York City, at least in terms of digital media. Although Carl underwent two significant profound family losses in just a year-and-a-half’s time – losses that would have shaken even the most committed of journalists and developers – he never gave up hope, spending hours teaching himself new skills while simultaneously balancing a slew of family obligations. Shortly after losing his father to melanoma while we were in graduate school, Carl and I worked together on a project for a story I was writing for The New York Times, and that also was part of Columbia’s annual Innovation Showcase. Carl took charge of all multimedia aspects of the project, putting together an interactive flowchart in a matter of hours and assembling all the presentation materials to perfection. He put in his 100 percent in during a time in his life when most people wouldn’t have the fortitude to put in 50 percent. The most notable trait that sets Carl apart in my mind is his genuine, intellectually-driven passion for data visualization and digital news that has never seemed to be motivated by the allure of having a “big name media” job or a byline in a national publication. While many of his much-less digitally-talented peers stayed in New York following graduation to strive after the “perfect” brand name news gig, Carl opted to honor his family obligations by taking a leadership position at the daily newspaper in Savannah, Ga., just two hours away from his mom in south Georgia so that he could visit her more often. I don’t know of many people with as much talent in the media industry as Carl who would make that kind of sacrifice. It’s a testament to his loyalty – a loyalty that would be an attribute for any company that has the opportunity to have him join their team.
>
> > Daniel A. Medina, General Assignment Reporter / Quartz

> I was privileged to work with Carl on several collaborative social media projects during his time with the Savannah Morning News. His innovative ideas and technical skills played an integral role in how information was communicated at key events in Savannah for visitors such as the 189th St. Patrick's Day Parade and Festival. Carl developed digital systems to establish a central calendar and revamped website and smartphone app for DoSavannah that put the Savannah Morning News on the map as a trusted resource for mainstream and alt events in the area that appealed to locals and visitors. Carl's ability to complete projects under tight deadlines and keep a positive attitude made him an enjoyable partner to work with and I enjoyed collaborating on special projects and promotions with him!
>
> > Amy Brock, Social Media Manager / Visit Savannah

> For almost a year-and-a-half, I had the rewarding opportunity to work under Carl’s leadership during his time as Digital Media Manager and Online Editor for the Savannah Morning News and savannahnow.com. During his tenure, Carl reinvigorated my journalistic efforts as an online content producer with hands-on web training, valuable expertise and knowledge of current media trends and exemplary practices for enhancing storytelling and audience engagement. He is a fierce team leader, a thorough communicator and an exceptional motivator, often instilling confidence in me when I didn’t think I could accomplish advanced digital tasks on my own. His strengths as an instructor helped me to master web and mobile app development, data visualization and other interactive tools to produce more effective story packages and creative content. Carl also lobbied for opportunities that would allow his team members to gain professional development and greater exposure in the journalism industry. Most notably, in October 2013, I traveled with him to the Online News Association conference in Atlanta where we joined highly engaged digital professionals to discuss tools and techniques advancing the value of news media. It was my first time networking with leading digital journalists from around the country. Carl’s time at the Savannah Morning News tremendously altered the newsroom’s collective approach to digital practices. Even after his employment, he still readily and generously offers consultation, advice and support in any of our company’s endeavors. We continue to value his passionate work ethics and eagerness to teach, and our team is significantly better because of his contributions
>
> > Janay Kingsberry >Digital Journalist, Savannah Morning News / Morning News Media (Savannah Morning News)

> During the spring of 2012, I was fortunate to have Carl as a student in my class on Data Joumalism and Information Visualization at Columbia Journalism School. Throughout the semester, Carl proved to be a bright, dedicated student and valuable team partner whose enthusiasm, insight, and considerable skills enhanced both classroom discussions and his individual and group projects.
> Unlike most of his classmates, Carl arrived in my class with a fair amount of experience in programming and web development, having created content management systems for
> small websites for several years. Though this meant that Carl was already familiar with many of the concepts we discussed in class - especially during our programming labs -
> he engaged fully with all of the lessons and class discussions, using his existing skills as a springboard to take given assignments above and beyond what was required, rather than using them as a crutch to skate through the material. This was evident most distinctly towards the end of the semester, when, having had to miss some weeks of school due to very significant personal loss, Carl not only made up his missed assignments but went beyond a simple blog response and executed his final critiques with a level of rigor and detail that would be welcome in any professional circle. He also redoubled his
> contributions to his group’s final project, which was one of the class’s most sophisticated
> and successful.

> Carl's unique critical, academic and personal achievement led me to award him the only honor's designation among the 15 students in my class – a recognition that he richly deserves. He is a person whom I would gladly welcome as a newsroom colleague myself, and I think any organization that has the opportunity to work with him will quickly feel the same.
>
> > Susan E. McGregor, Assistant Director and Professor / Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University

> Carl was a colleague of mine while we were both studying at Columbia Journalism School in 2011-2012, and he later went on to become a professional mentor-of-sorts to me after he moved back to New York City, at least in terms of digital media. Although Carl underwent two significant profound family losses in just a year-and-a-half’s time – losses that would have shaken even the most committed of journalists and developers – he never gave up hope, spending hours teaching himself new skills while simultaneously balancing a slew of family obligations. Shortly after losing his father to melanoma while we were in graduate school, Carl and I worked together on a project for a story I was writing for The New York Times, and that also was part of Columbia’s annual Innovation Showcase. Carl took charge of all multimedia aspects of the project, putting together an interactive flowchart in a matter of hours and assembling all the presentation materials to perfection. He put in his 100 percent in during a time in his life when most people wouldn’t have the fortitude to put in 50 percent. The most notable trait that sets Carl apart in my mind is his genuine, intellectually-driven passion for data visualization and digital news that has never seemed to be motivated by the allure of having a “big name media” job or a byline in a national publication. While many of his much-less digitally-talented peers stayed in New York following graduation to strive after the “perfect” brand name news gig, Carl opted to honor his family obligations by taking a leadership position at the daily newspaper in Savannah, Ga., just two hours away from his mom in south Georgia so that he could visit her more often. I don’t know of many people with as much talent in the media industry as Carl who would make that kind of sacrifice. It’s a testament to his loyalty – a loyalty that would be an attribute for any company that has the opportunity to have him join their team.
>
> > Daniel A. Medina, General Assignment Reporter / Quartz

> I had the pleasure of working with Carl during my time as the social media intern for the Savannah Morning News. As my mentor, Carl made it his responsibility to teach me everything he knew about social media, digital media and journalism. He was a kind, informative and patient teacher who made every day a learning experience. His passion for the digital world was easily contagious and inspired me to learn all that I could while under his leadership. When I had questions, Carl would take the time to answer them, explaining in full detail the task at hand. If I didn’t understand, he never got discouraged or angry. Instead, he would quickly adapt and find a way of explaining things to me in a way that I could understand. Carl has a natural affinity for teaching that surpasses his age and experience. He can easily assess the skill level of his students and, as a teacher, he can navigate a way of learning that best fits the students needs. After three months under Carl’s guidance, I felt very confident in my ability to manage my client’s social media and my ability to work independently as a digital media manager. He supplied me with the skill sets that would later make me look very profitable to future employers and because of this I am very grateful. I came away from this internship with an expansive knowledge of the digital media world and I owe all of that to Carl’s mentoring and leadership. Anyone would be lucky to have a teacher like him! </div>
>
> > Jessica Hayman, Social Media Manager / MyAgencySavannah

> I've known Carl since he was arguably the brightest student in his university journalism program. Since then he has gone on to be the in house innovator everywhere he has been. Carl not only understands where digital journalism needs to be today, he is also thinking about where it needs to go next and how he can help get it there. Every newsroom needs a Carl.
>
> > Grant Blankenship, Multimedia Journalist / Georgia Public Broadcasting

> Carl set the bar for news reporting at the Oxford Student, where I had the good fortune of working with him as an editor. He was the model of a dedicated, tenacious reporter, bringing intelligence and a craftsman’s passion to every story. Carl innovated too, pitching and executing a successful redesign of the paper’s website. And working with him was a joy on a personal level – he made quite a splash in our stolid British student newsroom. We often held up Carl’s work as an exemplar after he left Oxford. I am sure he will inspire future colleagues too.</div>
>
> > Winston Featherly-Bean, Project Manager / Locus Analytics

> I am a reporter for the Daily Telegraph in London but knew Carl Lewis when we studied together at Oxford University.
> We both worked on The Oxford Student newspaper, where I served as reporter and news editor, rising to become editor and then head of investigations. In those latter two roles, Carl worked alongside me as reporter and news editor and it is a mark of his character that he was both the best colleague and my toughest competition on the staff. Carl put in long hours and they paid off with splash af^er splash, several of which were picked up by nationalnewspapers. One of these, which appeared in the Daily Mail, credited Carl as joint reporter - and deservedly so given the piece was almost all his own woric. He was enthusiastic and lively, a great team player keen to encourage more junior members of staff. But perhaps what made the greatest impression was his ability to temper tenacity with empathy: he was determined to get the story but also to understand his sources and to act with impeccable ethics. I now work for one of Britain's biggest daily papers and I have rarely encountered people of such quality as Carl. I am confident that he would exceed your expectations.
>
> > Tom Rowley, Reporter / The Daily Telegraph
