---
title: 'Critique: Curbwise.com'
date: '2012-04-02T20:26:31.000+00:00'
categories:
- Data Visualization Thoughts
---

<p>Lately I've been trying to get my feet wet with <a href="https://www.djangoproject.com/">Django</a>, an open-source Python web framework that's well-suited to producing complex news apps under  tight deadlines. I haven't had enough free time yet to get into the nitty gritty of it, but I'm getting there slowly. What first piqued my interest in Django was a brilliant news app I ran across a couple of months ago called <a href="http://curbwise.com">Curbwise</a>, which was built with Django by the news developer team at the <a href="http://omaha.com">Omaha World Herald/Omaha.com</a>.</p>
<p>Curbwise advertises itself as "your one-stop shop for the latest on real-estate in Douglas County." But Curbwise is much more than your standard, run-of-the-mill real-estate section of most local news websites. It allows the user to fine-tune what neighborhoods he or she wants to view, and compare demographic data and housing prices side-by-side. Using a complex, clickable system of Google maps with a clean design and corresponding tables, you can drill-down to see all sorts of individual data charted out in an appealing red color-scheme, along with a listing of houses that are currently on the market in the neighborhood. You can even click on individual properties to see the historical and current valuations not only of the property in question,but of all the properties nearby. The warm yellow used to display the property tracts on the map invites the user to mouse over all the houses to see highly stylized infoWindows with more information. It's really hard to find anything about the navigation, interface and design to complain about. The only thing that might possibly make the app better is adding interactivity to the static charts on the neighborhood and property pages.</p>
<p>Obviously, all of this data is of immense value to users on an evergreen basis, not just a transitory news cycle. What's also impressive is that it's useful for both interested home buyers looking to browse the marketplace and for current home-owners who want to see the valuations of their home compared to nearby homes. For a small fee, the app even lets you download a custom report with all of that information contained within it upon entering your address. And, just in case a homeowner suspect his or her home may be overvalued, the interface includes a handy guide to protesting your valuation with local government agencies.</p>
<p>On a whole, Curbwise is the epitome of a solid, innovative app built by a news organization that works to protect consumers and inform the public. Even better, the money made off custom report sales provides the paper with an additional revenue stream that likely helps offset the loss in print advertising in recent years.</p>
